welcome to moviecaps today i will show
you a crime drama history film from 2008
that is based on a true story titled 21
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
then an mit mathematics major is
accepted into harvard but cannot afford
the 300 000 tuition he applies for a
scholarship that would cover the entire
cost but is informed that only one of
the 76 applicants will get it despite
having high grades and test scores he
faces fierce competition he needs to
write an essay and is told by the
director that the scholarship will only
go to whichever student dazzles him ben
works at a man's clothing store with his
best friend miles and is promoted to
assistant manager which makes eight
dollars an hour he tells miles about the
essay and that he has no idea what to
write about because he hasn't done
anything remarkable ben is frustrated
because even though he has crushed exams
taken extracurriculars and given up
everything the one thing stopping him
from going to harvard as money they meet
up at a bar with cam to celebrate ben's
birthday the three of them are trying to
win a science competition by building a
self-driving car back at mit a professor
nikki rosa is giving a lecture on
non-linear equations he asked the class
to explain newton's method ben mentions
that newton actually stole the method
from joseph rafson who published the
same method 50 years earlier the
professor is impressed and gives him a
chance for extra credit so he challenges
ben with the monty hall problem which he
solved successfully as class ends the
professor checks band's most recent test
result to see 97
ben miles and cam are at a gym playing
basketball he notices a girl he likes
jill
she waves and he waves back but turns
out she's waving at someone behind him
later that day as ben is studying a
fellow student comes up and asks to
follow him he's a bit confused but does
so
he's brought to a room that has some
students sitting at a blackjack table
and professor rosa standing at a
blackboard he tells ben to call him
mickey and invites him to join the mit
blackjack team
ben is introduced to the team consisting
of kiana fisher choi and jill
they explained that blackjack is
beatable and that they go to las vegas
every weekend and holiday and that a
spot on their team has opened up because
a previous member got a job at google
ben is hesitant because he's afraid to
step out of his comfort zone
jill says come on ben it'll be fun
they go back and forth then coming up
with excuses as to why he can't do it
and mickey trying to convince him but
ben ultimately declines
the next day jill shows up at his job
and says she's looking for a tie ben
tries to help her pick one but she's
actually there to try to convince him
further saying that he should experience
more things in life
then finally shows up at the blackjack
club and starts learning the system high
cards have a value of minus one neutral
cards have no value and low cards are
plus one he practices counting cards and
memorizes the words that the team has
assigned to each icon later at a bar
they explain the roles of every member
of the team
keanu choi and jill are the spotters
they sit at various blackjack tables
only betting the table minimum and
keeping count when one of the tables
reach a hot count the player has an edge
over the dealer so they signal ban or
fisher who are the big players who then
stumble over to the table like some
drunk rich kid in bet big when the deck
cools down the big player leaves the
table
ben shows up to a dodgy alleyway for a
trial run
he goes inside an underground casino
where his spotters are already sitting
at tables choi signals him that the deck
is hot and ben sits down at the table
troy then uses the word magazine in a
sentence to inform ben that the count is
plus 17 and he starts making big bets
he's winning a lot and is exhilarated
smiling constantly when suddenly a bag
is thrown over his head and he's dragged
into a back room a deep voice keeps
asking him what's the count he acts
clueless but eventually gives in and
tells them it's plus 18. turns out this
was a test whether he can keep the count
under pressure and is officially
welcomed to the team
the next day they fly to las vegas they
enter a hotel suite where mickey gives
each member a new identity in a disguise
he further instructs ben to act like
they don't know each other and always
order water tonic and lyman appear a
little drunk at the red rock casino
keanu signals ben
he looks to the right and sees fisher
and troy at the next table he sits down
and exchanges ten thousand dollars for
chips and after taking a sip of her
drink kion exclaims too sweet which
indicates that the count is plus sixteen
then doubles down on eights on his first
hand the dealer goes over 21 and ben
wins profiting four thousand dollars
already on the next hand he gets a
blackjack and wins another three
thousand dollars
he goes on playing at the casino on
different tables stacking chips along
the way
seeing ben winning so much fischer
stares in disbelief
come morning troy signals it's time to
leave and they head out
the next day ben is woken up by jill who
throws him his cut she tells him he did
good came in quick off the count wasn't
afraid to play big got out when he was
supposed to and made more money than
fisher he tells her that he was pretty
nervous at first but after a while it
felt easy they are called for a team
meeting fisher shows up drunk mickey is
pissed because on three occasions
fischer played into a cold deck even
when spotters let him know that mickey
tells ben he did good and to keep it up
fisher utters beginner's luck and denies
that he played wrong but mickey puts him
in his place
van is back at the dorm and stashes his
cut from the weekend 16 700 in the
ceiling tiles
suddenly miles and cam walk in and he
pretends he's just jumping on the bed
miles asks where he was this weekend and
says he called like 15 times
ben makes up a lie about helping a
cousin move and says that he forgot his
cell phone all three decide to go to a
bar for some drinks
ben sees jill at the counter and offers
to buy her a beer
his two friends are stunned and keep
staring at them he goes to tell them to
stop acting weird to not freak her out
but they say that they are probably more
freaked out than she is
van and jill are on a train he asks her
whether she came into the store to ask
him to join the team because mickey
asked her to
she says that he's the smartest guy she
knows and that's why he's on the team
and that's why she went to the store
he tries to kiss her but she pulls back
he is embarrassed and starts apologizing
but she tells him to not worry about it
and that she just doesn't want to
complicate things because they work
together
she says it's her stop so she gets off
the train
over the coming weekends the team is
flown to las vegas valley and ben comes
to enjoy his luxurious life as a high
roller but there's still one thing he
can't get off his mind
every trip he makes more money than in
five years at his old job
in boston he is just ben cappell but in
vegas he can be whoever he wants to be
it was too good to be true and felt like
it was never going to end the head of
security cole williams has been
monitoring the team and begins to focus
on ben suspecting that he may be
counting cards turns out he is also a
card counter but prefers to be on the
other side of the hustle
for the first time life was easy for ben
nothing cost too much and nothing was
out of reach college parties with frat
dudes were upgraded to something more
interesting fisher becomes extremely
jealous of ben's success in one day
while drunk sits down at ben's table and
starts dropping hints that they know
each other meanwhile williams is
watching them on tape and notices that
keanu only bets table minimum and that
ben only appears after she gives him a
signal he goes to confront them but
fisher has caused a commotion and they
leave before williams can get to them
at a bar mickey removes fisher from the
team
he informs the rest that the casino is
changing their chips in 24 hours which
means that they need to exchange them
for cash which they can't do because of
fisher's antics ben suggests they use
the dancers to exchange the chips for
them
mickey calls him a genius
later that day jill invites ben to her
suite and they have a romantic night and
make love
ben's new secret life causes him to
neglect his role in the science
competition which estranges him from his
friends he shows up late to a meeting
with them and gives them the wrong part
for their project they are disappointed
and tell him that he isn't as committed
to the project as they are and decide to
keep going without him during the next
trip to las vegas he is emotionally
distracted he gets an unlucky outcome on
a big hand
he lets his emotions get the better of
him and fails to walk away from the
table when signaled by kiana jill steps
in and tries to get him out but fails
he ends up losing an extra 200 000
mickey is furious and even when ben
apologizes saying that this is his first
mistake and others try to back him up
mickey leaves the team and says that ben
will have to pay the 200 000 he lost one
way or another van and the remaining
team decide that they will continue to
play blackjack without mickey who took a
50 cut reasoning that they don't even
need him
jill is against the idea reminding ben
that he only did this to pay for harvard
but even though he had made enough money
he now wants to keep going they go back
to the tables and are winning but mickey
is lurking in the shadows and tips off
security williams takes ben to a
backroom and beats him up while
explaining that all casinos will soon
have face recognition software so his
days were numbered anyway ben is also
told that williams and mickey go way
back
he used to chase and beat him up too
which is why mickey doesn't play himself
anymore
then goes back to mit and reads a letter
saying that he is ineligible for
graduation because one of his courses
taught by an associate of mickey's is
marked as incomplete he goes inside and
finds his dorm room trashed the money
he's been stashing away is missing he
has lost everything he visits jill and
says he doesn't want to lose her too and
apologizes for his actions back in vegas
canon miles managed to win the robotics
competition even without ben who is
there watching he apologizes to miles
for letting him down and explains
everything he's been up to and they make
up ben goes to see mickey and persuades
him to make a final trip to vegas before
the casinos install biometric software
but this time they will all use
disguises and mickey will be the second
big player to make a big return they're
in a casino making big bets stacking
chips and enjoying themselves
they manage to profit 640 000
before william shows up
jill signals them and they scramble
throwing chips in a bag and taking off
a chase ensues they run around slot
machines and enter the staff area where
mickey convinces ben to throw him the
chips and says they should separate
mickey manages to get out and hops into
a limo he's ecstatic thinking he got
away with all of the money but as he
opens the bag he realizes that the chips
are fake ben switched the real chips
with fake ones while they were running
turns out that williams has always held
a grudge against mickey because the last
time he saw him he got away with massive
gains
so he made a deal with ben to lure
mickey back to vegas to catch him
in turn ben would be allowed to keep
whatever they make that day but when ben
and jill eggs at the casino williams
walks up and explains that he needs the
money for retirement and ben being as
intelligent as he is will figure out a
way to succeed so he takes the bag at
gunpoint
turns out that ben's longtime friends
are also pretty good at card counting
and the six-person team makes a lot of
money despite william's robbery as ben
is recounting this story to the
scholarship director he looks pretty
damn dazzled
the end
thank you for watching
subscribe if you'd like to see more
videos like this